To:      Users of WSJT
From:    Joe Taylor, K1JT
Subject: WSJT 5.9.7
Date:    April 30 (???), 2007

I am pleased to announce that WSJT 5.9.7 (r373) is available for free
download from the WSJT Home Page,
http://physics.princeton.edu/pulsar/K1JT.  It should appear soon on
the European mirror site, http://www.dk5ya.de, as well.

Many of the changes from Version 5.9.6 (r309) are motivated by the
recent explosion of activity using JT65A on the HF bands.  Some
changes will also be useful in the EME world.

1. Since WSJT 5.9.0, double-clicking on a callsign in either one of
   the decoded text windows will cause that callsign to be copied into
   the "To Radio" box and inserted appropriately into the transmit
   message boxes Tx1 and Tx2, and will activate "Auto On".  This
   feature makes it easy to call a station you have just copied
   calling CQ, or responding to your CQ.  In version 5.9.7 the feature
   is expanded so that in JT65 mode, if you double-right-click on a
   callsign the Tx messages will be configured with numerical signal
   reports (in dB) and full-length messages including callsigns.  The
   numerical signal report is extracted automatically from the same
   line of decoded text.

2. The little-used "Sked" box has been deleted.  In its place just
   above the "GenStdMsgs" button is a new button labeled "TXDF = 0".
   Clicking this button toggles between transmitting at the standard
   JT65 frequency (sync tone at 1270.46 Hz) and transmitting at an
   offset frequency determined by "Freeze DF".  This feature is
   intended primarily for HF use.  If you are tuned to dial frequency
   14.076 MHz, for example, and find someone calling CQ at DF=-450 Hz,
   click on the sync tone to set Freeze DF appropriately, then click
   the TxDF button.  Its label will change to "TxDF = -450" (or whatever
   the appropriate number is), and your transmission will be very close
   to zero-beat with the other station.

3. Earlier versions of WSJT have used the Right/Left arrow keys to
   adjust "Freeze DF" in 5 Hz steps.  This use conflicts with standard
   use of the arrow keys for text editing, with the effect that Freeze
   DF could be changed unintentionally (for example, when editing a Tx
   message).

4. In past versions Alt-D has been available as an alternative to
   clicking the Decode button.  Related keyboard shortcuts have now
   been added: Ctrl-d forces the decoder to consider data that would
   normally be rejected because they do not meet the standard
   signal-level requirements.  Shift-Ctrl-D does the same thing, but
   also forces an attempt to decode a standard (as opposed to
   shorthand) message.

5. The "Band" menu now has entries for all bands from 1.8 to 2304 MHz.

6. An optional menu item "Decode -> JT65 -> Quick Decode" has been
   added.  If this item is checked, decoding will start at t=48 s
   (rather than t=52 or 53 s).  Decoding will also be slightly faster,
   and (very) slightly less sensitive.

7. A one-page summary of WSJT keyboard shortcuts has been added to the
   standard distribution.  Print it and keep a copy handy at your
   operating position.
